Here is the chain of function calls that are made (or can be made) when an
interface calls a core routine.  Not all of this is in place; the single
core dispatch routine is not in place yet, and the TextOutput formatters
haven't been separated from the main TextOutput routines.

This looks extremely complex, but consider these requirements:

* There must be a clean break between the core and the interface.  No
  complex data structures can cross the boundary.  The core must not assume
  anything about how the data will be displayed, and it should do no
  formatting.

(This explains the reason the interface goes through the TextOutput
routines.  A Web interface could go through an HTMLOutput routine.)

* All calls from the interface must go through security validation.
  Nothing that comes from the interface is to be trusted.  The core
  functions may need to pass different parameters to the security checker.

(This explains why the core dispatch function calls the core function and
not the security checker directly.  Actually, it's possible that some
functions don't do any special checking and can be eliminated.)

* Any request must be able to be stalled indefinitely and completed at a
  later time when the owner or requester has verified that it is OK for the
  request to proceed. 

(This explains the complicated path through the Token routines, and the
reason that those routines can also call the bottom half of the core
routines directly.  It's also the reason for most of the real complexity.)

Here goes:

The interface can call the parser to pick out a set of commands and call
the TextOutput routine, or call the TextOutput routine directly.  Both the
interface and the parser may call core utility functions to retrieve config
variables and the list of lists.  The parser will provide the default list
if it is known, and also maintain state for default password/list.

The TextOutput routine takes an argument string, a list or argument
lines, or a filehandle (along with a bunch of other parameters),
processes them appropriately, and calls the Majordomo core dispatch
function.  (It can also call some utility functions.)

---- The core/interface junction is here. ----

The core dispatch function calls the appropriate core function.

The core function calls global/list_access_check to check passwords and
such.

List_access_check makes use of master_password and the passwords table to
determine whether the given password (if any) is valid.  If no password was
given, it calls the appropriate routine from the pre-parsed access_rules
data, takes the result, and calls the appropriate internal access checking
routine.

The internal access checking routine will wither return a result, consult
other config variables and return a result, or call either Token::confirm
or consult.

Token::confirm/consult generate a token and sent it to the appropriate
address/addresses, then return to the internal access checking routine.

The internal access checking routine will either return (to
list_access_check) 1 for success, 0 for failure, or -1 for a conditional
success: one that requires either confirmation or consultation and this
cannot be immediately completed.  (The latter is called a stall.)  It can
also return a message which comes from the access_rules routine.

List_access_check returns directly to the core function.

The core function then decides if the request should be completed and if
not it returns (-1 or 0 and the message) to the dispatch function.
Otherwise it calls its bottom half function.

The bottom half function returns 1 and its data, or 0 and a message if
something goes wrong.

The core function returns those results immediately.

The core dispatch function then calls the inform routine appropriately so
the request (and its success/failure/stall) is duly logged and the
appropriate people are informed.

The TextOutput routine then takes the return and calls the appropriate
formatting function.

The formatting function takes the data from the core function and turns it
into something the user can understand.  The formatter can make more calls
to the core to retrieve additional data, so that huge lists or files do not
have to be buffered entirely on both sides of the link.  The formatter then
returns to the TextOutput function.

The TextOutput function returns success or failure to the parser or
interface.


Note that in the case of a stall, the token acceptance routine will call
into the core and the core will then call the bottom half function on its
own.  The acceptance routine must then take these results and call the
formatter to present the results to the user.  This is how _any_ request
can be sent off for confirmation and completed at an arbitrary time in the
future.  The token database stores all of the information required to allow
the core to complete the request later.  Note that the interface which
accepts the token does not have to be the interface that made the request.

 - J<
