-*- Text -*-

This document gives an overview of the Majordomo 2.0 system and the
relationships of the various objects.

All of the core functionality of Majordomo is encapsulated into a single
object of type "Majordomo".  All interaction with Majordomo core routines
is through method calls on this object.  A new Majordomo instance is
created through a simple constructor which takes a configuration name as an
argument.  The configuration name is intended to allow simple support for
virtual domains by keeping several configurations completely separate while
allowing the interfaces to easily specify which configuration they need.

The Majordomo object itself has a set of List objects (one for each list
and one to hold global data) and a TokenDB object.

The TokenDB object handles the confirmation token functionality, which
makes approvals simpler for both users and list owners.

The List object contains a Config object, a FileSpace, a SubscriberList, an
AliasList, and one or more AddressLists, and encapsulates all list
information.

A Config object encapsulates a simple configuration system, supporting both
old-style (Majordomo 1.x) files (essentially read only) and a new, simpler
and faster format.  Methods for setting and retrieving values are
implemented, along with methods which access information about the use of
each config variable.  The old majordomo.cf file for global configuration
data is not supported; instead the Config object handles both list-specific
and global data.

A FileSpace provides a simple file system to a list, with a simplified set
of permissions.  This allows remote list owners to place files on the
server and to manage the various informational messages which are sent out.
An important benefit is that no informational files are hardcoded into
Majordomo, and the owner can create new informational files.  There is a
simple path mechanism, so that a list owner can make use of the site
defaults and the files set up by another list and override them piecemeal.

The SubscriberList object provides methods for adding and removing addresses 
a pattern, and iterating over the list membership in a controlled fashion.
(Lists can be huge, and thus no method is provided to retrieve into an
array all of the list members in order to discourage code which will not
scale well.)

SubscriberLists, AliasLists and AddressLists all inherit from a simple
database module, SimpleDB.  The interface is intended to scale to real DB
files and perhaps SQL engines.

The File object encapsulates file operations.  The FileRepl object
encapsulates file operations where a replacement action is taking place; a
replacement can be abandoned at any time leaving a consistent state
emulating a simple transaction mechanism.  The File and FileRepl objects
seem for most purposes to be normal filehandles (except where Perl design
inconsistencies do not permit this).  File locking is done implicitly.

Locking is encapsulated in the Lock object, which implements a simple
locking mechanism allowing shared and exclusive locks.  The Majordomo code
does not require a certain implementation, so that any module which
follows the locking API will work.  The mechanism is not required to allow
shared locks, but it must allow the locked file to be deleted and renamed
without breaking the lock.  (Thus regular flock will not work.)

The core code expects only a two global variables:

A Log object, open for logging, in $::log.  It is simpler to declare this
as a global than to pass it around; nearly every routine requires it in
some way.

A Majordomo object, in $::mj, holding the top-level Majordomo object.  This
allows the code to access the global configuration, which is an unfortunate
side effect of having a global configuration in the first place.  Other
solutions which arrive at the same ends are equally distasteful.  This
mechanism may also be used to access other global resources from within
submodule code, but the code does not yet do this.

The email and shell interfaces make use of the TextOutput module, which
formats results from the Majordomo module in plain text suitable for
display to the user, and the Parser module, which reads commands from a
text file.  The Parser module uses the CommandProps.pm file to determine
legal commands and parameters.

The Config module makes use of the mj_cf_data.pl and mj_cf_defs.pl files,
but these will probably turn into something else eventually.

Adding a new command/feature:
-----------------------------

(Note that there will probably be a separate procedure for sites to
extend the Majordomo commands in a simpler manner.)

Adding a command to Majordomo 2 is more involved than doing so to 1.9x
because of the issue of multiple interfaces and the core/interface
barrier.  That said, it isn't horribly complicated.  We'll use the
example of a 'resubscribe' command, which changes a users address
without involving an unsubscribe/subscribe pair.  The process
involves:

The internal functionality (List::resub)

  The actual work must be done.  Some of this work must be done at the
  List.pm level because we want to work directly with the subscriber
  data.  So we'd write an addrchange function which removes the old
  entry, adds the new one, and updates the alias database.

The core functions (Majordomo::resubscribe, resubscribe)

  We need two Majordomo.pm-level function to handle the operation.
  The first performs any argument and access checking (validating
  addresses and such).  The second actually does the work by calling
  the List.pm routine.  (We use two functions because the second will
  only be called after access validation succeeds, which may take an
  indefinite amount of time because of confirmation.)

The formatter (Format::resubscribe)

  A routine in Format.pm which handles producing useful output for the
  return from the core function.

The argument mangler (TextOutput::resubscribe)

  A routine in TextOutput.pm which takes a command line and extracts
  the arguments from it, then calls the core routine and passes the
  result to the formatter.  Note that for the specific case of the
  resubscribe function, we'll have 

Internal tables.

  CommandProps.pm needs the information about the command and its
  properties.  The %requests hash in Config.pm will need an additional
  key so that the 'resubscribe' action can be specified in the
  access_control language.  Any additional config variables needed (in
  this case there probably aren't any) should be specified in
  mj_cf_data.pl, with their defaults in mj_cf_defs.pl.

That's it.  Note that a web interface would probably need something
additional to tell it how to set up the proper forms and such.  Also the
help texts would all need to be updated.

Now all that's required is to make this simpler.  Some of this could be
done semi-automatically, so that the config and access stuff could be
handled in one place.  It would be nice to allow a single file to hold one
or more extensions.  (Perhaps this can be done already, if we decide to
include an extension file at startup.)


An Email's Trip through the System:
-----------------------------------

An incoming email gets into the system either by being piped to
mj_email, mj_enqueue, or by someone/thing running the post command.
Either way, the text of the email is stored in a file and this filename
is passed to the post function in Resend.pm.

This function takes apart the file and does MIME parsing on it.  Then it
looks for approval passwords in the header and body (and a planned approval
MIME block with an attached message).

Then it looks for bad things.  admin_* and taboo_* are applied, illegal
MIME parts are searched out, duplicates are checked for (message-id, body
checksum, partial body checksum), quoting limits are checked (not yet) and
length limits are applied (not done yet).

The the message is bounced if necessary.  The message is spooled in an
approval spool area until it is approved (or rejected).

Then the _post function is called.  The message is re-parsed if necessary
and the munging begins.  MIME parts are dropped or converted (not done
yet), headers, footers and fronters are added and the message is deposited
into a file.  A separate version of the message with possibly different
changes is also deposited into the archives.

This file is sent to the delivery engine along with information about what
class of subscribers are to receive the message and which specific users
are _not_ to receive the message (not yet) (this is so that users can elect
no to receive copies, or users who are mentioned in the To or CC headers
can elect not to receive an additional copy from the list server).  The
delivery engine takes all of its delivery parameters and decides how to
split up the address list among all of the SMTP servers it knows about.
Then it sends out the message.

 - J<
