-*- Text -*-

Here you'll find information on major changes.  (Read the ChangeLog
for the boring stuff.)  Items at the top are newer.

The 'archive-get' command is supported; this returns digests built out of
messages from the archive.  Messages from a date or range of dates can be
requested, as can lists of named messages and the last several messages
posted.

The user can be removed from the registration database and all lists at
once with the 'unregister' command.

There is a single, site-wide password that works as a global password for
all domains.  It is set at install time and is changed by rerunning make
install.

The stock response files are no longer in each domain's filespace; they
exist outside all filespaces in a special SITE domain.  This results in
disk space savings and a large speedup in the initial installation.

Each registered user has a password which can be changed by the user and
used to bypass the confirmation process.  User passwords are supplied just
as owner passwords: using the approve command.

An internal reorganization places all data known about Majordomo commands
in one place, paving the way for easy extensions.

A new variable, 'advertise_subscribed' serves to globally select whether
users will be able to see a list if they are subscribed.  If this is off,
the normal access restrictions on advertising apply.  (Note that the
default is still to show the list, so this only servers to improve
performance slightly.)

The show command shows everything about an address, including data on all
lists it is a member of.

An internal rewrite has given a single database holding information about
all subscribers to all lists.  A new 'register' command adds users to this
database without subscribing them to any lists.  The register keeps track
of the lists a user is subscribed to, so several operations require only
one database access.  This permits a single alias database and a simple
per-user password system.

The postinstall process is now very quiet unless verbosity is requested.

The shell interface has an interactive mode, with completion of commands,
lists and config variables.

Majordomo is immune to bad suggested filenames in MIME parts.

Resend can filter for long headers in MIME parts, partly to remove concerns
about messages which trigger buffer overflows in clients.

The createlist command can be used to generate an entire alias file for a
domain.

The separate mj_email, mj_resend and an abortive mj_request interfaces are
now unified into a single mj_email interface which accepts options to
control what is done with a message.  This command accepts mail from all
addresses (majordomo, list, list-request, list-owner) and does what is
appropriate.  Mail to list-owner is directed to the owners stored in a
config variable 'owners' while mail to list-request is acted on according
to the variable 'request-answer'.  Mail to list-request can be sent to the
owner, replied to with a canned (and owner-selectable) message, or parsed
for commands.

The database engine has been abstracted to allow different backends, with
automatic conversion as necessary.  Only the Text backend is currently
supported.

Lockfiles are stored in a separate directory.

The configuration procedure can be told not to store passwords; they will
be prompted for at install time.

Taboo matchers allow negative severities.

Commands take modes/options with '=' or '-' as a separator, allowing the
more sensible 'command-action' form.

The message that is sent to the archives does not need to be identical to
the message distributed to the users.  Header modifications and
fronters/footers are not present in the archived version.  Attachments
stripped before sending can be present in the archived copy.

Archiving works; the archiver keeps index files containing data on each
message.  Messages in the archive are assigned numbers and the index
provides exact byte offsets into the archive files.  Archives can be split
by year, month, week, or day and further split by size.

Reply-To: headers work.

An mj_trigger command provides a way to signal Majordomo that periodic tasks
should be run.  Two commands in the Majordomo user's crontab are all that
is required to have Majordomo take care of all necessary periodic
functions.

Default subscription flags can be set, along with a separate setting for
the flags associated with nonmembers.

A preliminary system for internationalization is in place although it is
not yet accessible to the user.  The owner can set a default language for
the list, though currently this only affects mailed files and only English
files are supplied.

VERP-like envelope extensions are supported.  The list can be bounce-probed
in pieces; Majordomo2 will automatically probe different addresses each
time.  This support is very preliminary.

Many new bits of information about list messages are computed and made
available in the access control language.  These include number of bytes,
lines and quoted lines, percentage of quoted lines, size of header, and
longest header.

Taboo matches can now be named; named matches accumulate severity
separately.  Named matches can be referenced separately in the access
control language.  Capitalized names additionally do not generate bounce
reasons.

Numeric comparisons for appropriate variables are now available in the
access control language.  This allows for statements like '$admin_header >
20 && $lines <= 3'.

The address validator is a little smarter about illegal characters and long
host and user names.  The configurable parameters are now settable through
global config variables.

Information on each "connection to the server" (called a session) is stored
and referenced in the logs and in each token.  When a token is rejected,
information (including the session contents) is sent to the victim, the
list owner and majordomo-owner.  The tokeninfo and sessioninfo commands
return data on tokens and sessions.

get, index, put, info, intro, faq, newinfo, newintro, and newfaq all work.
Majordomo includes a simple "virtual filesystem"; get, put and index work
with pathnames within this filesystem.  When "absolute paths" are not
provided, everything defaults to a public directory which means that nobody
notices the change.

Posting denials are now acked if the proper flag is set (ackall or
ackimportant).  The returned message for posting denial is much better
and includes the denial reasons.  (Actually it includes all of the
things wrong with the message, even if some of them wouldn't have
caused a denial.)

Preliminary support for attachment_rules are in.  So far the checks
for illegal types are implemented, which means that you can set
attachment_rules such that messages containing certain MIME types can
be bounced or denied.

Fronters and footers are now implemented.  The provision is made to
have several fronters and several footers and to randomly choose
between them.  Also, additional variables controlling how often
fronters and footers are added are implemented.  Care is taken so that
multipart messages are properly dealt with and that types other than
text/plain are not mangled.

Posting and approval are now functional; all of the old approval
methods are supported, in addition to several new MIME-aware methods
and the token based method and the post command.

Most of the access system works correctly, including many the default
actions.  subscribe_policy and (no)?advertise work in a backwardly
compatible manner.

Default replies from the access restriction system are implemented and
give useful information.

confirm and consult now work properly.  Results go to the right place
(the victim always sees them, even if the victim wasn't the one
accepting the token).

Lots of stuff that is lost in time.

