 -*- text -*-

Here are a few of the things that differ between 1.9x and 2.0.  Things that
are planned but not yet implemented are noted; otherwise everything
mentioned actually works (modulo bugs, of course).

General:

Perl 5.004_01 (or later) is required, along with several modules.  Perl
4.036 is no longer supported.  Majordomo now relies heavily on perl5
features.

Majordomo fully understands MIME at all levels, will not bomb on or
mangle MIME message, and can make use of special MIME goodies where
appropriate.

Majordomo runs with full taint checks, warnings, and strict checking
enabled.  Any warning is considered a bug (during development; these
will probably be turned off to protect against perl progress once
release time comes).

The internal Majordomo routines have been decoupled from the interface,
making multiple interfaces possible. 


For the installer:

Installation is prompt-driven; there is no Makefile editing required.
Majordomo tries to figure out for itself what your system needs, and will
check for its prerequisites and ask you questions.

Reliance on the wrapper is mostly eliminated on platforms which support
it.  This includes Solaris, Linux, and Digital Unix but not HP-UX.  On
platforms where perl supports it, the small Majordomo executables run
setuid and setgid.

Majordomo will create all necessary directories and install all files in
their proper locations.


For the site maintainer/majordomo-owner:

Majordomo supports virtual domains; it supports many completely separate
collections of lists.  This appears to users as several separate Majordomo
installations.

Majordomo can create its own lists.  If using a supported MTA, Majordomo
can provide all required aliases or give configuration instructions.
(Currently only support for Sendmail is implemented.)

Fewer aliases are required; Majordomo no longer needs (and can no longer
make use of) the insecure outgoing alias to deliver mail.  Majordomo can
even work entirely without aliases by using the shell interface and the
'post' command.

Majordomo keeps its lists in databases; currently these are still text
files but they are not meant to be edited or generated externally.
Majordomo provides facilities to convert lists of addresses into its
database format easily; it also provides for removal of addresses by
regular expressions and for removing all matching addresses.  The
reasons why address list editing was needed with 1.9x have been
eliminated.

Majordomo can run with very strict permissions; the list files no
longer have to be made world-readable.

Majordomo incorporates its own advanced delivery mechanism, similar to
that in bulk_mailer or TLB, rendering those programs obsolete.  It can
also interface directly into qmail.

Majordomo conducts approval by issuing random tokens and storing them in a
database; it is essentially impossible to forge a subscription request and
then guess the token needed to authenticate it.  This elminiates a certain
kind of hacking possible with Majordomo1 and in addition makes it possible
to track outstanding confirmations, issue reminders about them and expire
them.

For the list owner:

The list configuration mechanism has changed.  You can still retrieve
the config file, edit it, and send it back, but you can also retrieve
a subset of the variables and set them without first retrieving them.
You can also choose to see the comments or not.

The approval process has been made much simpler; you can simply reply
to the consultation message (or type a shell command or visit a web
page) if you do not wish to edit the message before it is sent.
Consultations can now be sent safely to a group of people without fear
that more than one will approve the message (though actually sending
to a group is not yet implemented).  If old-style approval is still
required, it will work and has been extended to cope with MIME.

You can choose exactly what notifications you want to receive.
Notifications can be sent immediately, or summarized in a periodic
report.  (Reports not yet implemented.)

You can set up multiple fronters and footers which will be randomly
chosen to be added.  (This could be used for advertisements or a
number of other things.)  You can also choose to have fronters or
footers to be added to some percentage of all messages.

You can choose to filter out messages containing MIME parts that you
don't want appearing on the list.

For the end user:

The confirmation process has been made much simpler; instead of sending
back a line verbatim and worrying about line wrapping and such, the user
can simply reply to the message or visit a web page.

The email interface supports MIME, so even if you have to send through a
gateway that converts your messages to quoted-printable, Majorodmo can
still read your commands.

Easy access to FAQ lists are provided via the faq command.

When someone tries to forge subscribe requests in your name and you
explicitly reject the confirmation tokens, you and other responsible
parties will be sent a record of the forgery including what is hopefully
enough for your sysadmin to track down the perpetrator.

You can elect to be informed when one of your messages requires approval.
