-*- Text -*-

For some brief instructions on getting a list started, see
REAMDE.QUICKSTART.

If upgrading an existing Majordomo2 installation, always read
README.UPGRADE for instructions on dealing with inter-version changes.

For specific instructions on using Majordomo2 with various MTAs (Mail
Transfer Agents) see README.SENDMAIL or README.QMAIL (or assist us in
writing additional instructions for other MTAs).

Check README.DIRECTORIES if you'd like to know the complete layout of a
running Majordomo2 system, or README.INTERNALS for some information about
the internal layout of Majordomo2.  See README.DEBUGGING for some tips on
degugging, and read "help configset_debug" for how to set up your system
to log information you need for that debugging.

This is an alpha release of Majordomo 2.0.  It can easily be used to run a
number of lists.  Nearly all Majordomo 1.94.4 functionality is available
(including archives and digests).  There is still much work to be done and
bugs surely remain to be found.  It is also 

Note: this requires Perl 5.004_01 or later to run.  This is due to bugs in
5.004, and the fact that lesser versions are both lacking in features and
security.  Most of the testing is done using Perl 5.004_04 and 5.005_02.
Currently a Perl built with threading support will fail to run Majordomo2
code properly due to bugs in the Perl threading support (which is in a
development state).  Please use only non-threaded builds for the time
being.

The following modules are required.  These may have prerequisites which
have not been listed; please inform mj2-dev (see below) of any
modules which you had to load but which are NOT listed below.

1) CGI version 2.36

2) MD5 version 1.7
  found in MD5-1.7.tar.gz

3) Mail::Header version 1.1 or greater
  found in MailTools-1.13.tar.gz

4) Mail::Internet version 1.3 or greater
  found in MailTools-1.13.tar.gz

5) MIME::Tools version 4.119 or greater
  found in MIME-tools-4.124.tar.gz

6) Date::Format (any version)
  found in TimeDate-1.08.tar.gz

7) Data::Dumper version 2.07

8) MIME::Base64 version 2 or greater
  found in MIME-Base64-2.11.tar.gz

9) Date::Manip version 5.1 or greater
  found in DateManip-5.37.tar.gz

10) IO::Wrap version 1.101 or greater
  found in IO-stringy-1.207.tar.gz

11) Net::Domain
  found in libnet-1.0702.tar.gz

12) Time::HiRes is recommended if you want to generate accurate
    timings, but is not required.

All of these modules are available from CPAN, the Comprehensive
Perl Archive Network.  To find a CPAN site nearest you, look at
<URL:http://www.perl.org/> or <URL:http://www.perl.com/>. Follow
the instructions in the file you download, or try this:
  cat FILE.tar.gz | gzip -d | tar xvf -
  cd FILE
  perl -w Makefile.PL
  make install
  cd ..
  rm -rf FILE
You will need to be "root" to install Perl modules, and install
may not run properly if your environment variables are wrong.

Version numbers in file names may be different (those shown above are
examples as of 4/2000), and are included here only so you can see the
approximate name of the file to download from one of the many links in
  http://www.cpan.org
You can search for modules from
  http://www.cpan.org/modules/index.html
or scroll through all of them from:
  http://www.cpan.org/modules/01modules.index.html

You may also use the CPAN module which comes with Perl; check the Perl
documentation for more info.  The installation process will suggest ways
to use CPAN to install missing packages, but these require that the CPAN
module be configured and running properly first.

Majordomo2 includes its own setuid wrapper generation, so setuid shell
scripts are not required.  (Some versions of Unix do not support them; Perl
can work around this on some Unices but it must be configured to do so.  If
needed, the wrappers are compiled using the information from the Perl
configuration, in particular the configured location of the system C
compiler.  If this information is incorrect, then the wrappers will not
build.  If the wrappers are not required, neither is a C compiler.  Note
that even if you have an MTA that does not require the Majordomo1 wrapper
there are still Majordomo2 programs that need to be setuid, namely the
shell and web-confirm interfaces.  These are setuid majordomo only, not
setuid root.

You need a complete and proper Perl installation in order to run Majordomo.
Some vendors ship Perl but do not configure it correctly.  Majordomo will
try to detect trouble during the installation process but it will not
do anything to fix it.

Note: if you have any input on this software, even if you have not
tested it, please let mj2-dev@csf.colorado.edu know.  All
feedback is appreciated.


Reporting bugs:

Please report bugs to mj2-dev@csf.colorado.edu and CC a copy to
tibbs@math.uh.edu (just in case).  Please be sure to include information on
what version of Majordomo2 you're running (including the time you checked
it out of CVS if you did so), the version of Perl you're using and the OS
you're running.  We may also need to know the versions of any relevant
modules and the configuration options you chose.

The old bug reporting system did not prove to be useful; Jitterbug is being
evaluated for a new one but has not yet been set up.

To participate in the Majordomo 2 developers' mailing list, write to 
  majordomo@csf.colorado.edu
and in the body of the message, put this command:
  sub mj2-dev

Similarities with 1.94.x:

A major design goal of Majordomo 2 is to provide something that looks
exactly like Majordomo 1.94.4 to the users.  All existing instructions for
end users of Majordomo-managed lists should still be applicable, excepting
places where changes in previous behavior were required to fix bugs or plug
security holes.  (Note that the changes in the confirmation process both
fix bugs and improve security and also make things much easier on the
users.)

The situation is much the same for list owners, but the approval and config
procedures have changed.  There is some backwards compatibility here,
though, and more may be forthcoming.  There are, of course, many more
variables that can be set.


Differences from 1.94.x:

Everything.  No code has survived.  It was flea-bitten, full of warnings
and didn't have a hope of running under -w, use strict, or taint checks.  I
found it simpler to write it all anew than to try to fix the old code and
make it do what I wanted.  I tried for a long time; half-rewriting it at
least twice.

Majordomo now communicates with a delivery agent via standard
protocols; there is no reliance on being able to call something that
looks like Sendmail.  It can also speak the protocol used by
qmail-queue to inject mail directly.

Majordomo keeps a database of subscribers, and so can keep lots of extra
state information.  Because of this, digests can be incorporated into the
main list, along with vacation mode and other goodies.

Majordomo has a completely different file layout, with one directory per
virtual domain containing one directory per list.

The interfaces are completely separate from the core.  There are interfaces
for email and shell access, with plans for more.

Piles of other stuff.  Too much to list.  Read all of the pods and the TODO
list, and the hundred or so pages of notes I have on real paper which you
probably couldn't read even if you could get to them.


Installation:

Much blood has been shed to make installation as painless as possible.
It's still painful because it's not finished.  Try to imagine how easy it
will be when it's finished.

To install:
  unpack (you did that if you're reading this).  Make certain that root is
    able to read all of the distribution files.  (This means that you
    cannot unpack the distribution with no global read permissions on a
    disk that root cannot manipulate, such as an NFS-mounted directory
    with no root privilege.)
  type "perl Makefile.PL".

Your system will be checked for prerequisite modules and such.  If any are
not found, you must install them before installation can continue.  Some
sample instructions that may work for many properly configured perl
installations are provided for missing modules.

You will be asked several questions as Majordomo configures itself for your
system.  See the 'Makefile.PL questions' section at the end of this
document for more detailed discussion on the questions that Makefile.PL
asks.

When the configuration process finishes, you will be asked to run 'make'
and 'make install'.  'make' will prepare the files for installation, and
can be done without special privileges.  'make install' must be done as
root, as it will need permission to make directories and change ownership
of files.

The final installation step is complex; Majordomo is used to configure
itself.  This can result in copious amounts of information so the verbosity
can be controlled.  By default Majordomo will completely configure itself
and will present to you a brief progress summary and some important
configuration step, but you can request additional verbosity, interactivity
or silence.

This works by specifying variables on the 'make install' command line.  You
can specify the following variables:

  QUIET   - show even less information
  VERBOSE - print everything that's happening
  
They are specified like this:

  make install VERBOSE=1

In addition, there are two other flags for use by developers:

  ASK  - ask questions about whether or not things should be done
  SKIP - skip all non-essential configuration steps

If you are making changes to the code or are frequently updating from CVS
and you want to skip parts of the installation process, you can use SKIP to
skip it all or ASK to have the process prompt you.  Also note that
MakeMaker understands the VERBINST flag to quiet its part of the
installation; you must set it to zero (i.e. 'make install VERBINST=0') to
use it.  Finally, you can get the quickest possible installation by
skipping the installation of the manual pages and any setup by using "make
pure_all" and "make pure_install VERBINST=0 SKIP=1" (the latter, of course,
as root).

Finally Majordomo2 will be installed, and some configuration information
will be suggested.  Be aware that this configuration information may not be
correct for all sites; especially sites running virtual domains.  Virtual
domain users and users of other MTAs, please let us know how to configure
things for you.


Interacting with Majordomo:

After installing the aliases as given by the installation process and
possibly rebuilding the alias database, Majordomo should respond to mailed
commands at the given address.  The command processor works in much the
same way as it does in Majordomo 1, but with many additions.  In
particular, the command works and also takes topics to give help on; try
'help topics' and 'help parser'.

New with Majordomo2 is the shell interface; it can be used to interact with
the server via the command line.  This is in general much easier to deal
with for local users.  The installation process will have installed a
manual page along with the executables and libraries; accessing it is
system-dependent but may require setting the MANPATH variable to add the
new directory.  Just about everything that can be done from the email
interface can be done from the shell interface, along with a few other
things like interactive editing of configuration variables.

The shell interface now also works interactively; just run it without any
Majordomo commands and it will prompt you.  If Term::ReadLine::Perl is
installed, it will also provide command completion for commands and list
names.  See the manpage for more information.


Creating and converting lists:

You can make your own lists just by calling the createlist command, like
this:

mj_shell -p password createlist list-name owner@address

If you've configured Majordomo to take care of your MTA configuration for
you and configured your MTA appropriately, everything should be taken care
of.  Otherwise this will give you the necessary configuration information.

You can pull in a set of addresses from a Majordomo 1.9x list like this:

mj_shell -p password -f old-list-file subscribe=quiet,noinform list-name

(This subscribes all addresses from a file, without welcoming them and
without sending an informational notification to the list owner).

If you copy the old configuration file into the directory for the new list,
it will be automatically created.


List configuration:

Lists are configured using the configshow and configset commands.  The old
config interface is not yet supported.  Try viewing the 'admin
configuration' help topic.  To see the whole config file, you can send
'configshow=comments listname ALL'.


The Filespace:

Each list has a directory where retrievable files are stored; this is
called a filespace.  Because normal filesystems do not track enough
information about file types, Majordomo2 maintains a database containing
information about these files such as their description and MIME type.  The
list owner can upload files to the filespace and users can retrieve files
from the public portion of the filespace.

When retrieving a file from the filespace, Majordomo2 consults a search
list made from the 'file_search' config variable and a global default.
Other list's files can be referenced as long as they share their files.
Since Majordomo2 goes through the filespace to send out nearly all of its
messages, this provides both an overrideable defaults mechanism and a means
for internationalization.

Files are uploaded using the 'put' command; 'put-dir' will make
directories.  There is currently no way to delete a file.  The 'newinfo',
'newintro' and 'newfaq' commands are shortcuts for 'put' with specific
arguments.

Files are retrieved with the 'get' command; 'get=immediate' will return the
file inline instead of mailing it as a separate message.  The 'intro',
'info' and 'faq' commands are shortcuts for 'get' with specific arguments.

A (partial) list of the response files that Majordomo2 uses are given, with
supported variable expansions, in the FILES document.


Archives:

Archives start accumulating as soon as the archive_dir variable is set and
the directory exists, or as soon as an "archive" directory appears in the
public area of the list's filespace.  The latter can be done by the command

  putdir listname /public/archive Archives

(properly approved, of course).  There is no need to create additional
aliases.  Archives are free of fronters, footers, most header modifications
and subject prefixing.  The archive system will automatically create a
".index" directory to place various indices.

The archive directory can be a symbolic link without problems, although
there is no provision for creating such a link from within Majordomo.  The
usual reason for using a symlink is to permit the archives to be in an FTP
area.  Majordomo must be able to write to the archive directory, but
otherwise no special permissions are required and a mode 700 directory is
perfectly acceptable.

(Archives will be needed in order for digests to work.  There will be
provisions for old archives to automatically be removed, in case long-term
archiving is not desired.)


Access Control:

All operations which need to restrict access go through a central mechanism
for doing so.  The list owner can choose to use the old Majordomo 1
interface which works via the *_access variables, restrict_post,
subscribe_policy and the like.  This works as expected (though the
mechanism by which restrict_post lists are set up has changed).

The owner can also choose to make use of an extremely flexible system which
is documented in "help configset access_rules".  This, when coupled with
some of the taboo_* extensions (like severity and classes) and the metrics
that resend collects allows almost arbitrarily complex access control.

Instead of Majordomo 1's limitation of confirming only subscribes, almost
any operation can be stalled and completed after a conformation token is
returned by either the user or the owner (or both).  The owner can also
choose to deny outright a request.

Information about a token can be retrieved using the 'tokeninfo' command.


Sessions:

Majordomo2 stores information about every email or command line processed
in files called sessions.  These are files containing all pertinent
information about the session (email headers, CGI environment, selected
environment variables, etc. as appropriate) as well as a log of all
commands executed during that session.  When a token is rejected,
information about the session that generated it is automatically mailed to
the list and site owners (if they elect to receive such information).  Old
session files are automatically deleted after the number of days indicated
by the 'session_lifetime' variable.


Makefile.PL Questions:
----------------------

  What is the user ID that Majordomo will run as?
   Either the numeric ID or the user name is fine.

Majordomo must run as a specific user on your system.  Generally an account
must be created (the installation process will not do this for you).  Give
either the name of this account or its numeric ID here.

----

  What is the group ID that Majordomo will run as?
   Either the numeric ID or the group name is fine.

As above, the installation process needs to know which group Majordomo will
run in.  It is not necessary for Majordomo to be in a special group or that
a separate group be created, although some administrators may wish things
to be this way.

----

  Should the SETID wrappers be installed?
   Majordomo needs to be able to run as the proper user no matter who is
    running it.  This requires that it be installed SETID.  On some systems,
    the Majordomo programs can be installed SETID, but this requires both
    that the operating system support it ant that perl be built to support
    it.  If this is not possible, a set of tiny wrapper programs can be built
    which will take care of the SETID needs of Majordomo.
   If you're not sure of how to answer this question, just answer YES.
    There is no loss of functionality when the wrappers are enabled.  Curious
    users may want to answer NO; if wrappers are required, the installation
    process will fail later.

  Install the wrappers? 

Majordomo must run as a single user, but the mail system may execute it as
other users depending on various circumstances.  Also, the shell interface
must run properly no matter who executes it.  For these and other reasons,
Majordomo must run setuid.  On some systems and perl installations it
suffices to simply set the appropriate permissions on the scripts, while on
others small wrapper programs must be created and compiled.  It is
difficult for the installation process to determine the proper setting; it
is always OK to build the wrappers but things are slightly simpler without
this.

----

  What umask should Majordomo use?
   The umask is the Unix method of restricting the permissions on newly
    created files and directories.
   Useful values are:
    077 (nobody can read any Majordomo files)
    027 (users in the Majordomo group can read the files)
    007 (users in the Majordomo group can read and write the files)
   Choose 077 for maximum security.  Majordomo2 can operate with very strict
    permissions.

  What should umask be set to?

Check the umask manual pages for more information on umasks; the basics are
in the description.

----

  Where will the Majordomo libraries, executables and documentation be kept?
   This could be something like "/usr/local/majordomo"; Majordomo will make
     this directory and several directories under it to hold its various
     components.
   Note that this is not necessarily where your lists must be stored.

Majordomo just needs to know where to put its executables and libraries.
After installation, Majordomo will not write to this location.  It can be
NFS mounted or on a partition mounted read-only (after installation is
complete, of course).  If it is an NFS-mounted partition, however, that
partition must be mounted to as to allow setuid binaries.  If this is not
the case, most of Majordomo will fail completely.  Note that Majordomo does
not install its libraries into the normal perl installation directories.

----

  Where will the Majordomo list data be kept?
   Note that under this directory will be a directory for each domain your
     site supports, and under that a directory for each list at your site.
   Note also that this should _not_ be a directory containing lists
     maintained by Majordomo 1.x, as Majordomo 2 stores its lists in a
     different format.

This should _not_ be an NFS-mounted directory, as the locking mechanism
currently used by Majordomo will not function properly over NFS.  This
doesn't have to be in the same location as the previous directory.

----

  Where can Majordomo place temporary files?
   Majordomo occasionally needs to write out short-lived files in a place
     that all users can write to.  These files are generally small and are
     deleted after the operations are complete.

This should be something like /tmp where everybody can create files.

----

  Where can Majordomo place secure temporary files?
    Majordomo also needs to write out private temporary files.  For maximum
      security, this should be a special directory that is neither readable
      nor writable by normal users.  (In other words, it should not be /tmp
      unless you know what you're doing.)  Many security problems can arise
      when any user can create files and links in the temporary directory with
      the same names that Majordomo would use.
    The installation process will create this directory if it does not exist,
      but will not enforce any permissions.

Majordomo will create this directory during installation but will not
create it at runtime.  Therefore you should be wary of placing this on a
filesystem like Sun's tempfs which goes away after a reboot unless you take
care to recreate the directory properly during the boot process.

----

Note that you can prepare a response file that has the answer to each
question.  This is currently very fragile as it is still in the
preliminary stages.  Any change in the questions will cause a response
file to break.  You've been warned.

 - J<
