 -*- Text -*-

These are a few tasks that I hope others can complete.  I will eventually
get to them if nobody else does, but that will take time.

Beautify the logfile code:
  The current logging code was written for simplicity; this results in
  a logfile which is neither pretty nor human-readable.  While the
  intention is for Majordomo to be able to make reports from its
  logfile, there is is still reason to make it browseable by those who
  want to look at the file itself.  Many recommendations for the
  common logfile format were made, but I know little of it and I am
  unsure that it can handle all of the specific data elements that
  Majordomo keeps.  This needs to be investigated and better code
  needs to be written.

Read the code:
  It would help immensely if someone could just read over the code and see
  what is sufficiently commented and documented and what is not.  If a
  construct is not understandable on its face, tell me and I will comment
  or rewrite it to be clearer.  This project is for naught if after I'm
  dome with it others can't work on it.  This could be done module by
  module.

Write some docs:
  One of Majordomo's largest problems has been its lack of good
  documentation.  The installation will be made much simpler in 2.0, so
  that problem is somewhat mitigated, but there's still the problem of
  general list administration, a whole new category of advanced list
  administration (multiple moderators, peer review, access_rules and the
  weird things you can do with it, etc) and the always painful subscriber
  documentation.  We need new online docs (help text, config variable
  descriptions) and offline docs (install guide, list-owner-info, FAQ).

Design the Web interface:
  We have been offered MajorCool, but it will need some work to be fit into
  toe new object framework.  There are also many new possibilities now that
  all parts of the core are easily accessible to an interface, and the MC
  code will need some redesign to take care of this.  And then there's the
  'clean Perl5' rule.  Before someone can start coding, we need to
  determine at least the basics of what the new design will look like.

Implement the Digest module:
  I have done some work on getting the Digest mechanism started; the
  trigger mechanism is described in the documentation for the 'digests'
  variable and this variable is completely parsed down into all of the
  necessary information.  The interface to the archive is documented, but
  not yet implemented.  Various other important pieces of the digest
  functionality are detailed in the TODO file.  This all needs code.

Categorize the configuration needed to interface with the various MTAs.
  The module Mj::MTAConfig contains routines that suggest MTA-specific
  configuration procedures.  Write a function for your favorite MTA.  Look
  to the sendmail method for a guide.  If you need additional parameters,
  please let me know.

 - J<
