                    Introduction to List Configuration

When a new mailing list is created, the way in which it is configured
may require some adjustment.  This document presents a "top ten" list
of configuration settings that may require immediate attention.  Next
is a summary of the configuration categories, with a short description
of the purpose of each setting.  We conclude with several advanced
features for list administrators.  First, we will review the basic
concepts of list configuration.

As mentioned in "help admin", there are three commands that list
administrators can use to view and change the configuration settings.
These commands are:

  configdef   Return a setting to its default value
  configset   Change the value of a setting
  configshow  See the current value of a setting

When the configset command is used to change the value of a setting,
the new value sometimes takes up more than one line.  In that case,
it is necessary to put the new value into a here document (see
"help here_document" for more details).

The examples in this document assume that you know how to use your 
list's administrative password.  Please review "help admin_passwords",
if you have not already done so.  In each example, replace LISTNAME
with the name of your mailing list.

Look before you leap
--------------------

Every configuration setting has a default value.  Every time a list
administrator uses the configset command, the default value for the
setting is overridden, even if the old and new values are identical.
For this reason, we recommend that you always "show before you set," use
the configshow command to see the current value of a setting before you
change it with the configset command.  By overriding the settings that
were configured by the domain administrators, a list owner might miss
out on wise present and future default values.

A technical discussion of default values is presented later, in
the "Configuration templates and default values" section.

Important settings for new mailing lists
----------------------------------------

Every mailing list shares the same default values.  Because there are so
many kinds of mailing list (private or public, moderated or unmoderated,
with open or closed membership, etc.), it is likely that most new lists
will need some configuration before they are ready to run.  This section
gives examples for the "top ten" settings that are likely to need
attention, in reverse order of importance.  Each setting has its own
help page, to which you can refer if you need to learn more.

10. category

  The "lists" command, which shows a list of public mailing lists
  at $DOMAIN, will organize all of the lists by category, but only
  if the category has been set for any of the lists.  For example,

    configset LISTNAME category = economics

9. noadvertise

  To make a list private (invisible to the lists command), the noadvertise
  setting can be configured.  For example,

    configset LISTNAME noadvertise = /./


8. subject_prefix

  People who like to see the name of the list or some other identifying
  marker in the Subject headers can use the "prefix" personal setting.
  For example, the subject prefix for the cabbage mailing list might
  make the message subjects look like this:

    Subject: [cabbage] Re: Cold frames

  The subject_prefix setting can be used to customize the Subject lines,
  for example,

    configset cabbage subject_prefix = [CABBAGE: $SEQNO]

  would include the sequence number of the message in the subject, 

    Subject: [CABBAGE: 142] Re: Cold frames


7. who_access

  By default, the subscribers of a mailing list can use the who command
  to see a list of the other subscribers.  If you want to protect the
  privacy of your subscribers, restrict access to both the who and the
  which command:

    configset LISTNAME who_access = closed
    configset LISTNAME which_access = closed


6. subscribe_policy

  When someone subscribes to a mailing list, a confirmation notice is 
  mailed.  The subscriber then has to confirm the subscription request
  with the accept command.  Using confirmation notices prevents 
  forgeries; however, the list owners can stop requiring confirmations 
  with this command:
  
    configset LISTNAME subscribe_policy = open

  Usually, when someone attempts to subscribe someone else to a mailing
  list, the moderators' approval is required.  In this case, the address 
  making the request is called the "requester," and the address that is being 
  subscribed is called the "victim."  Often, the requester and victim are the 
  same person, and the intervention of the moderators is unnecessary.  To
  allow people to subscribe other addresses, subject to the confirmation
  of the victim, use this command:

    configset LISTNAME subscribe_policy = auto+confirm

  Finally, if the moderators would like to approve every subscription, use
  this command:

    configset LISTNAME subscribe_policy = closed+confirm

  There are similar settings for the set and unsubscribe commands; see
  "help configset_set_policy" and "help configset_unsubscribe_policy"
  for more details.
  

5. description

  The description is shown when someone views the list of mailing lists 
  with the lists command.  This short description should be less than
  50 characters in length, for example:
 
    configset cabbage description = The cabbage family, Brassica oleracea

  There is also a description_long configuration setting, that is displayed
  by the lists-long command.  See "help configset_description" and
  "help configset_description_long" for more details.


4. attachment_rules and attachment_filters

  The widespread appearance of virii and worms in e-mail messages makes
  content screening a necessity.  The attachment_rules setting can be
  used to moderate or deny messages based on the type of attachments,
  or to remove attachments from messages before they are delivered.
  For example, to moderate all messages with application/octet-stream
  parts, and to remove all HTML body parts, use these command:

configset LISTNAME attachment_rules <<LLL
application/octet-stream | consult
LLL

configset LISTNAME attachment_filters <<LLL
text/html | discard 
LLL


3. default_flags

  When someone joins a mailing list with the subscribe command, her
  personal preferences are set automatically, according to the contents
  of the default_flags configuration setting.  By default, only the
  "selfcopy" flag is turned on.  If you would like new subscribers to
  see subject prefixes automatically, use this command:

configset LISTNAME default_flags <<ABDF
prefix
selfcopy
ABDF

  There is also a "default_class" configuration setting that determines
  how messages are delivered to new subscribers.  See "help set" for a 
  detailed discussion of the classes and flags.  An address can be 
  subscribed, and the settings configured at the same time.  For example,

    subscribe-set LISTNAME digest someone@example.net

  See "help configset_default_flags", "help configset_default_class", and 
  "help subscribe" for more details.


2. digests

  Unless the domain administrator has set up default digest settings, 
  each list's administrators must change the digests configuration 
  setting, if they want digests to be supported.  

  Each digest in the digests setting takes up two lines.  The first
  line is the name of the digest, followed by a group of values
  that determine when the digests are sent.  The second line is
  a description of the digest, which appears in the Subject header
  when the digest is mailed.  Here is a simple example:

configset LISTNAME digests <<KLM
daily | 1-3 | 30k | 100k | 36h | | | text
LISTNAME Daily Digest
KLM

  This daily digest is delivered between 1 and 3 AM every morning.
  Each digest must be at least 30 kilobytes (kB) in size, but no greater
  than 100 kB.  The digest will be delivered if a message is older
  than 36 hours, even if the total message size is less than 30 kB.
  Finally, the default digest format is text, meaning that attachments
  will not be included in the digest.

  There is also a digest_issues setting that shows the current volume
  and issue number for each digest, if any messages have been 
  delivered.  The "digest-incvol" command can be used to increase
  the volume number.  See "help configset_digests", "help digest",
  and "help configset_digest_issues" for more information.


1. access_rules

  The access_rules setting is one of Majordomo's most powerful and
  complicated features.  It allows the list owners to control access
  to any request, especially posted messages, that affects a mailing
  list.  There are other configuration settings that control access,
  such as the subscribe_policy setting, the who_access setting, the
  moderate setting, and the restrict_post setting; however, access_rules 
  will override any of those settings.

  The most important use of the access_rules is to control who can
  post messages to a mailing list.  For example, the following rule
  would allow anyone to post, including unsolicited advertisers:

configset LISTNAME access_rules <<ZYZY
post
allow
ALL
ZYZY

  This example allows only people who are subscribed to a mailing list
  to post messages.  Posts from anyone else will be moderated:

configset LISTNAME access_rules <<POP
post
consult
!@MAIN
POP

  More examples are shown in "help admin_moderate".  For a more detailed 
  description of access_rules, see "help configset_access_rules".
  

Categories of settings
----------------------

Majordomo has over 100 configuration settings.  To help you manage them
more easily, they have been divided into several categories.  Some
settings appear in more than one category.  The categories of interest
to list owners are ACCESS, ARCHIVE, BOUNCE, DELIVER, LISTS, MISCELLANY,
MODERATE, PASSWORD, and REPLY.  The "help configshow" document gives a
summary of each category.

As an illustration, to see the current settings in the BOUNCE category,
use this command:

  configshow LISTNAME BOUNCE

To see a summary of the categories, use this command:

  configshow-categories LISTNAME


The configedit command
----------------------

The mj_shell command-line interface has a special feature.  If you use
the configedit command, the current values of the settings you name on
the command line will be edited by your favorite text editor program.
This makes the value of the setting much easier to edit and replace.  

This feature only applies to the mj_shell program.  If the configedit
command is used in an e-mail message, it will not be recognized.


Configuration templates and default values (advanced topic)
-----------------------------------------------------------

Any list owner can use the configdef, configset, and configshow commands
to store configuration settings in files called configuration templates.
They are called templates because they act as guides for copying settings
from list to list.

Template names have the same constraints as list names: they must consist
only of letters, digits, period, hyphen, and underscore.  Each template
must be managed by an existing mailing list.  To refer to a template,
use the listname, followed by a colon and the template name.  For example,
this command:

  configset LISTNAME:mytemplate moderate = 1

would create or change a template called "mytemplate" and set its 
"moderate" configuration setting.

Once a template exists, you can see all of its values using the 
configshow-declared command, for example:

  configshow-declared LISTNAME:mytemplate

would show only one value, for the "moderate" configuration setting,
because only one value has been declared in that template.

The most important templates are the ones stored by the DEFAULT list.
These configuration files are available to any list owner through the
configshow command.  To see a description of the DEFAULT templates,
use this command:

  lists-config DEFAULT

Two of these templates are critically important.  The DEFAULT:MAIN template
is another name for the main configuration settings of the DEFAULT list.
The DEFAULT:_install template gives the installation default values.
These settings apply to all lists in the $DOMAIN domain.

When Majordomo looks up the value of a setting for a mailing list, if
that setting is not declared within the list's main configuration table,
it looks through the templates in the config_defaults setting.  If none
of those templates has declared a value for the setting, Majordomo will
will look in the DEFAULT:MAIN configuration template.  If the setting
has not been declared there, it uses the value from the DEFAULT:_install
template.  As a consequence, the DEFAULT:_install template must have a
declaration of every configuration setting.  The values in the
DEFAULT:_install template should never be changed, because they will be
overwritten if the software is upgraded.

The DEFAULT:personal template gives an example of how useful templates
can be.  This template customizes each posted message; the address of
the subscriber is placed in the To: header, and a footer is added that
also shows the subscriber's address.

Please look at the settings using this command:

  configshow-declared-nocomments DEFAULT:personal

As you can see, it takes several commands to achieve the "personal"
effect.  These commands would be difficult to remember, but you can
easily apply them to your mailing list with the configshow-merge
command:

  configshow-merge-append-nocomments DEFAULT:personal LISTNAME

or by adding the word "personal" to the list of templates in the
config_defaults setting.  Please see "help configset_config_defaults" 
for more details.

The configshow command will automatically change the configset commands
that are displayed so they apply to the LISTNAME mailing list.  Please
read the "comments" setting in the output of the configshow command:
personalized mailing lists require more resources, because a separate
copy of each posted message is delivered to each recipient.

If you decide to undo the changes from the DEFAULT:personal template,
simply use the configshow-extract command:

  configshow-merge-extract-nocomments DEFAULT:personal LISTNAME

The configset commands displayed by the configshow-extract command will
return the settings to their original values.

If you would like to see other templates added to Majordomo, contact the
developers at mj2-dev@csf.colorado.edu.


Password levels (advanced topic)
--------------------------------

Each configuration setting has two numbers that determine what level of
password is required to see or change the value of the setting.  Higher
numbers mean greater restrictions.  In the output of the configshow
command, you will see comments like this:

# master_password (level 2)

"level 2" means that a level 2 password is required to change the value.
Your list's master administrative password has level 2.  If you wish to
change any setting with a higher level, you will need to contact a
domain or site manager.  

For more details, see "help configset_config_access".


See Also:
   help admin
   help admin_commands
   help admin_delivery
   help admin_documents
   help admin_moderate
   help admin_monitor
   help admin_passwords
   help admin_subscribers
   help configdef
   help configset
   help configshow
   help here_document
   help set
   help subscribe

$INCLUDE-help/foot
