Majordomo2 Subscriber Commands
==============================

This is a basic overview of the supported Majordomo commands for use by
subscribers.  For a list of administrative commands and additional modes,
see the 'admin commands' help topic.

Many commands have options available to modify their behavior.  Options
will appear next to the command names in (parentheses).  Commands with
options should be sent in the format:

        command-option argument(s)

Multiple options may be strung together like so:

        command-option1-option2-option3 argument(s)

An address can generally be omitted from the command.  If omitted, your
address will be used if it can be determined.  Note that the address is not
optional for the alias and unalias commands.

Commands may be sent either to the majordomo server's address, or to the
list's -request address (i.e., scooters-request).  For messages sent to the
-request address, the list name can be omitted from the commands.  The list
cannot be omitted from commands sent to the majordomo address.

Examples of the commands that follow will assume an imaginary list named
'scooters'.


accept token
--------------
  Some commands will require your confirmation before their actions will be
  taken; this can help protect you from mischief by preventing others from
  submitting commands in your name.  In such a case, a 'token' will be
  mailed to you for approval.

  The 'accept' command tells Majordomo to accept a confirmation or
  consultation token, thus approving the requested action.  The stalled
  command will be executed and the results returned in the response
  message.

  If the token is omitted from the command, the Subject: header will be
  searched for one; accepting a token therefore usually requires only that
  you hit "reply" on your mailer and type the word "accept".

    See Also:  reject


alias address
-------------
  If you have more than one email address, you may wish to be able to post
  from more than one of them, while receiving list mail at only a single
  address.  The 'alias' command allows this.

  Send this command from an address that is registered with the server; the
  given address will then be considered equivalent to the address from
  which you sent the command.

    Example:  Thad has two addresses, thad@example.com and tsmith@bar.com.
              He wants to be able to post from either address, but only
              wants to receive mail at thad@example.com.  He subscribes to
              the list as thad@example.com and, from that address, sends
              the command:

                alias tsmith@example.com


approve password command
------------------------
  This runs the given command (and arguments) with the supplied password,
  executing the command without requiring a confirmation token.  In our
  example below, "vespa" is the registered user's password.

    Example:  approve vespa alias tsmith@example.com


faq list
--------
  This returns a Frequently Asked Questions document for the current list,
  if one is available


get list file address
---------------------
  This retrieves the given file from the list's file storage.  The file
  will be mailed to the supplied address.


help topic subtopic ...
-----------------------
  This retrieves the given help topic.


index list path (-recursive, -long)
---------------
  This retrieves an index of available files.


info list
---------
  This retrieves the given list's informational document, if one is
  available.


intro list
----------
  This retrieves the given list's introductory document, if one is
  available.  Note that this is not (currently) the same as the welcome
  document that is sent to new subscribers.


lists (-enhanced, -short, -tiny)
-----
  This retrieves a list of lists on this server which are available to you.

  The enhanced mode includes long descriptions and additional list
  information, including an indication of whether you are subscribed to
  each list.  The short mode uses only short descriptions.  The tiny mode
  includes only the list names and nothing else.


password userspassword address (-random)
------------------------------
  Change the password for the given registered address to userspassowrd.
  A confirmation token will be sent to the given address to verify this
  action.

  The -random option will generate a random password; naturally, no new
  password need be provided in this case.

    Examples:  password blahblah sydney@example.com
               password-random sydney@example.com

    See also:  approve


register address (-nowelcome)
----------------
  This adds an address to the registration database without adding it to
  any lists.

    Example:  register nobody@example.com

    See Also:  unregister


reject [token]
--------------
  This rejects a token, preventing the requested action from being taken.
  If no 'accept' command is received, the token will eventually be rejected
  by default, but issuing a 'reject' command will immediately delete the
  token and requested action from the server's database.

    See Also:  accept


set list value address
---------------------
  This sets the values of various subscription parameters.
  *NOTE* - Not all of this functionality is implemented.

  You can set your subscription class, which controls how (and if) you
  receive messages from the server.  There are three basic classes:

    each   - you get each message as it is posted.
    digest - you get periodic collections of messages.
    nomail - you get nothing.

  Along with 'digest', you can specify which digest you want to receive and
  how you want it formatted.

    Examples: set scooters digest-daily-mime
              set scooters digest-weekly-index

  Here, 'daily' and 'weekly' are the names of the digests; you should see
  the introductory document for a list of which digests are available to
  you.  'mime' and 'index', along with 'text', are the three supported
  types of digest you can receive:

    mime  - a format supported by many of the newer mail clients.
    text  - the old, plain text digest format
    index - just an index of messages; you can retrieve the ones you want
            to see using the 'archive' command.

  Along with 'nomail' (also known as 'vacation'), you can specify an amount
  of time that you would like to stop receiving mail.

    Examples: set scooters nomail
              set scooters nomail-4d

  You can specify times like '1week', '2months', '3days' and you can leave
  off all but the first letter.

  In addition, there are several flags which you can manipulate to control
  various Majordomo functions.

  These control what parts of the process Majordomo informs you of once
  your message is submitted:

    ackall       - when the message is posted and if it is held up for
                   approval.
    ackimportant - if the message is held up for approval
    noack        - nothing; you should monitor the list to see if your
                   message is posted.

  These control whether or not you get a copy of your own message sent back
  to you.  (Assuming you are receiving 'each' message; 'digest' users will
  always see their own messages in the digest and 'nomail' users will
  obviously not receive their messages).
    selfcopy
    noselfcopy

  These control whether or not users can see your address using the 'who'
  command:
    hideall     - 'who' shows nothing about you.
    hideaddress - 'who' shows your name but not your email address
    showall     - 'who' shows your name and address

  These control carbon copy elimination.  If this is on and your address
  appears in the To: or CC: headers of a message that Majordomo is
  processing, it will not send an additional copy to you.  This helps to
  cut down on many of those annoying duplicates that are often received,
  but it deprives you of the additional processin that Majordomo does on a
  message (subject prefixes, additional headers, etc.).
    elimatecc   - turns CC elimination on
    noelimatecc - turns it off

  These control subject prefix generation.  If the list owner has defined a
  prefix, you can specify whether or not you want to see it.
    prefix   - always add the prefix
    noprefix - never show the prefix

  These control Reply-To: header generation.  If the list owner has defined
  a Reply-To: header, you can specify whether or not you want to see it.
    replyto   - always add the Reply-To: header
    noreplyto - never add the header (but if the poster has provided one,
                you will see it)

    See Also: archive, show, who


show address
------------
  This displays various information about the address:

    - Whether or not the given address is legal
    - The mailbox and comment, extracted from the address
    - What the address transforms to, under the various address
      equivalencies
    - Any aliases attached to the address
    - Any lists the address is subscribed to
    - The time the address was registered
    - The time the registration data was last updated
    - For each list the address is subscribed to:
      - What address is receiving the list mail
      - The time that the address was subscribed to the list
      - The subscription class
      - The subscriber flags
      - The time the record was last updated

    Example:  show joe@example.com


subscribe list address
----------------------
  This adds the address to the given list and to the registration database
  if not already registered.

    Examples:  subscribe scooters


unalias address
---------------
  This removes the given address as an alias for the current address.  Send
  this command from an address that is registered with the server; thehow much information the list server gives you about
  messages that you post:
  given address will then be removed from the database an no longer
  considered equivalent to the registered address.

    Example:  unalias scooters tsmith@example.com

    See Also:  alias


unregister address
------------------
  This removes the given address from the registration database and from
  every list that it might be subscribed to.

    Example:  unregister someone@example.com

    See Also:  register, unsubscribe


unsubscribe list address
------------------------
  Removes an address or addresses from the given list.  Even after the
  address has been removed from all lists, it will still exist in the
  registration database.  This allows a user to leave one list and join
  another without obtaining a new personal password.

    Example:  unsubscribe scooters buster@example.com

    See Also:  subscribe, unregister


which string
------------
  This shows which lists contain addresses which contain the given string.

    Examples:  which buster@example.com


who list
--------
  Returns all members of the list.

    Examples:  who scooters
