                           Majordomo error files

In an effort to support error messages that are easy to understand and localize,
the error messages are gradually being moved out of the source code and into
separate files.  Each error file is a template file that supports variable 
substitution.  The files are site-specific, but can be retrieved and customized 
on a per-domain basis using the get command.  For example, to customize the 
password_length file, use this command:
  get-edit GLOBAL /error/password_length

Error files are never returned directly.  Instead, their text is incorporated
into the appropriate format file for the command that generated the error
(see "help format_files" for further details).

The variable substitutions supported by each file are listed in parentheses.

digest_mode
-----------
This message is displayed if the digest command is issued without one
of the required command modes.

(standard plus DIGEST_DESCRIPTIONS, DIGESTS, MODES)

inactive_list
-------------
This error message is displayed if access to a list is denied because
the "active" configuration setting for the list is turned off.

(standard substitutions only)

incompatible_mode
-----------------
This message is displayed if a command is issued with two or more
command modes that are incompatible.

(standard plus MODE, MODES)

invalid_command
---------------
This error message is displayed if a command is requested that Majordomo
does not support.

(standard plus COMMAND)

invalid_list
------------
This error message is displayed if a list name is used that contains
illegal characters.  Legal characters include letters, digits,
underscore, period, and hyphen.

(standard substitutions only)

invalid_mode
------------
This error message is displayed if a command mode is requested that
Majordomo does not support for a particular command.

(standard plus MODE, MODES)

invalid_password
----------------
This error message is displayed when an invalid administrative or
personal password, or expired temporary password, is used.

(standard plus VICTIM)

make_list
---------
This error message is displayed when Majordomo is unable to initialize
an existing mailing list.

(standard)

message_count
-------------
This error message is displayed when the archive-part command is used 
to access more than one message.  For example, the archive-part-edit
command is normally used to alter a single message;  if, instead of
a single message number, a group of messages is requested, the command
will fail.

(standard plus MSGNO)

missing_mode
------------
This message is displayed if a command is issued with a command mode
that has a prerequisite that is missing.  For example, the
archive-immediate command is invalid because "get" mode must be used
with "immediate" mode.

(standard plus MODE, MODES)

no_password
-----------
This error message is displayed when a Majordomo command that requires
a password is issued without one.

(standard plus COMMAND)

no_visible
----------
This error message is displayed when a configshow command displays
no settings at all.

(standard plus SETTING)

not_extracted
-------------
This error message is displayed when a configset-extract command attempts
to remove a configuration fragment occupies more lines than the 
actual value of the setting.

(standard plus EXPECTED, SETTING, VALUE)

password_length
---------------
This error message is displayed if the password command is used to
attempt to create a personal password that is too small (see "help password"
and "help configset_password_min_length" for more details).

(standard substitutions only)

pending_delivery
----------------
This error message is displayed if the archive-delete command is used to
attempt to remove a message that is scheduled for delivery in one or
more digests.

(standard plus MSGNO)

password_level
--------------
This error message is displayed when a list administrator uses a 
valid password that has insufficient privileges.  It applies only
to the configdef and configset commands, which require varying
privileges according to which setting is being changed.  The 
config_access setting may be used to change the requirements.

(standard plus LEVEL, NEEDED, SETTING, USER)

relocated_list
--------------
This error message is displayed when a list from the GLOBAL relocated_lists 
configuration setting is used in a Majordomo command.

(standard plus NEWLIST)

unknown_list
------------
This error message is displayed when a list that has a legal name
but is not supported at this domain is used in a Majordomo command.

(standard substitutions only)

unknown_setting
------------
This error message is displayed if the configdef or configset command is 
used to change a configuration setting which is not supported by
Majordomo for the list in question.  This may be due to a spelling
error, or due to the fact that some settings are supported only
for the GLOBAL pseudo-list or only for ordinary mailing lists.

(standard plus SETTING)

unknown_token
-------------
This error message is displayed if the accept, reject, or tokeninfo
command is used in conjunction with a token that has the correct
format but could not be found in the token database.

(standard plus TOKEN)

unregistered
------------
This error message is displayed if the password command is used to change
the password for an e-mail address that is not yet registered at this
domain (see "help register" for more details on registering).

(standard plus VICTIM)


See Also:

   help admin_domain
   help format_files
   help get
   help reply_files
   help variables

$INCLUDE-help/foot
