Majordomo2 - Basic Help File
============================

This help message is from the Majordomo list management system at:

     $SITE

This is version $VERSION of Majordomo2.  More detailed help is
available on many topics; see below.


About Majordomo
---------------

Majordomo is an automated system which allows users to subscribe to and
unsubscribe from mailing lists, and to retrieve files from list archives.

You interact with the Majordomo software by sending commands to the
server address:

     $MJ

...in the body of a mail message.  Please do not put your commands in the
subject.  Majordomo only processes commands in the message body.  You may
put multiple Majordomo commands in the same mail message; put each command
on a line by itself.


Subscribing To a List
---------------------

To subscribe to a list, send the "subscribe" command, followed by the
list name, to the server address:

     subscribe example

Once your command is received by Majordomo, one of three things will
happen, depending on the configuration of the list:

     - You may be added to the mailing list automatically.

     - You may receive notification that an authorization key is required
       to verify your subscription.  This can be a bit of extra hassle,
       but it helps keep other people from subscribing you to lists
       without your knowledge.  In this case, you will receive a message
       containing your authorization key and instructions on how to
       complete your subscription.

     - Whether or not you had to use an authorization key, you may get a
       message informing you that your subscription request is being
       forwarded to the list owner for approval.  Some lists have waiting
       lists, or policies about who may subscribe.  If your request is
       forwarded for approval, the list owner should contact you soon
       after your request.

Upon subscribing, you should receive an introductory message containing
list policies and features.  Please SAVE THIS MESSAGE for future
reference; it will also contain exact directions for unsubscribing.  If
you lose the intro mail and would like another copy of the policies, send
the "intro" command, followed by the list name, to the server address:

     intro example

Consult the help topic "subscribing" for more information and additional
options.  See the section "Getting Additional Help" below for instructions
on reading additional help topics.


Unsubscribing from Mailing Lists
--------------------------------

Your original intro message contains the exact command which should be
used to remove your address from the list.  However, in most cases, you
may simply send the command "unsubscribe" followed by the list name:

     unsubscribe example

If this command fails, it may be that your provider has changed the way
your return address appears in your mail.  You may need to contact the
list owner for further help.


Getting Additional Help
-----------------------

For another copy of this message, send the command:

     help

To find out what you, as a list subscriber, can do with Majordomo
(finding out about lists, subscribing, unsubscribing, getting files
from the server, confirmations, passwords, etc.) send the command:

     help user overview

For a complete subscriber (or end-user) command reference, send:

     help user commands

To get a complete list of all available topics, send:

     help topics

To contact the owner of a specific list, send mail to the "-owner"
address which exists for every list:

     example-owner@$WHEREAMI

To contact a human site manager, send mail to $MJOWNER.


A Note to Longtime Majordomo Users
----------------------------------

Majordomo 2.0 tries as hard as possible to be backwards-compatible
with previous versions of Majordomo.  All user commands and many
admin commands from previous versions should work; those that don't
will provide you with a pointer to their replacements.
