A table containing delivery rules, which describe how Majordomo will
deliver mail.  In the simplest form, you can specify a host to use for
delivery and a batch size.  (This duplicates much of the functionality
of bulk_mailer, for those familiar with it.)

More complicated forms allow you specify a list of hosts to be used
for parallel delivery, and to specify more powerful batching
parameters.

The most general form allows various addresses to be directed to
different sets of hosts for delivery.

Each delivery destination should begin with a line containing either a
regular expression, or the word ALL.  Addreses are compared against
these in order; the first matching destination is chosen.  This
enables you to choose which addresses go to which sets of hosts.

The remaining lines (up until the next blank) should consist of
various parameters which affect delivery.  The possible parameters
are:

numbatches=N
  Split the address list up into exactly N batches.

maxaddrs=N
  Split the list into batches of N addresses apiece.

maxdomains=N
  Split the address list into batches of N domains apiece.  This
  differs from maxaddrs in that a batch can contain more than N
  addresses if several of them are in the same domain.  This requires
  a sorted address list to function completely.

minseparate=N
  If a domain appears more than N times in various addresses, they
  will all be given a separate batch.  This can improve the average
  delivery time quite a bit if you have many addresses at large
  providers, since they will be delivered immediately without waiting
  for other addresses.

  Domains that do not appear more than N times are batched according
  to maxdomains, which should also be specified in order to set the
  batch size for the infrequently occurring hosts.  If maxdomains is
  not also specified, maxdomains=20 is used.

If neither of the above are specified, the default is numbatches=1,
which duplicates the Majordomo 1.x behavior.

hosts=(hosta, hostb, hostc)
  A list of hostnames that Majordomo will connect to to deliver
  batches.  If no hosts are given, Majordomo connects to localhost.

  Batches are delivered to each host in turn in a round-robin fashion.
  (Future enhancements will deliver batches to each host
  simulataneously to compensate for possible delays from individual
  hosts due to load or network traffic.)

  The hosts in this list are randomly reordered, so even if you use a
  single batch the load will be spread out over several messages.

backup=(hostd, hoste, hostf)
  A list of backup hosts to use in case one or more of the regular
  delivery hosts are down.  These will normally be ignored, but if
  there is a problem contacting one of the normal delivery hosts,
  these hosts will be used in addition to the other working hosts.  In
  the event that no host is contactable, Majordomo will attempt to
  contact localhost.  If that fails, Majorodmo will sleep for ten
  minutes and try the whole process again.

sort
  Sort the address list.  Many of the batching options depend on
  getting the addresses in sorted order and will not work as expected
  if the address are unsorted.  Including the sort option causes the
  list to be sorted, but beware that this takes time and memory.  This
  is not necessary (and will have no effect) when using a sorted
  database backend.  A reasonable balance can be struck by sorting the
  list periodically (using the sortlist command) and not sorting here.

Hosts in either the hosts or backup lists can also be specified with
additional information, as follows:

hosts=(hosta=(parameter1, param2=5), hostb=(param3), hostc)

The host parameters are as follows:

esmtp      - speak ESMTP with the hosts if it is able.
onex       - send ESMTP ONEX to the host if it supports it.
pipelining - send the ESMTP PIPELINING command to the host.
timeout    - the number of seconds to wait when opening a connection
             to the host
port       - the port number to connect to, if different from the
             usual SMTP port.

If, instead of a host name, the string "@qmail" is used, Majordomo
will open a direct connection to the qmail-queue program and directly
inject the message into the qmail delivery system.  This assumes, of
course, that you are running qmail.

Examples (these are all separate):

Duplicate bulk_mailer:
ALL
sort, maxdomains=20

Use a remote exploder for Scandinavia:
/(.fi|.no|.se)$/
hosts=(nordland.no=(esmtp, onex), reallycold.se)
backup=(my.host.com)
numbatches=2

ALL
numbatches=1
hosts=(my.host.com)

