Triggers are used to send reminders and to remove expired data from
the databases.  Each trigger consists of a name and a set of times
during which the trigger is issued.  The data are separated by
vertical bars ('|') or colons, for example:

session  | monday(6,12,18), thursday(8)
token    | always  
checksum | 3rd(17),10th(9),17th(11),24th(19)

There are five trigger names:

bounce   - Expire subscriber data, such as bounces and vacation settings.

checksum - Expire posted message checksums and message-id data.

log      - Expire entries from the main log.

session  - Expire old session data.

token    - Issue reminders and remove expired tokens and temporary passwords.

The times follow the same syntax as the "times" portion of the digests
configuration setting.  There are several ways to indicate times:

always or anytime  - Always issue this trigger.
never or none      - Never issue this trigger.
yearly             - Issue this trigger once on the first of January.
quarterly          - Issue this trigger once on the first of January,
                     April, July, and October.
monthly            - Issue this trigger once on the first of every month.
weekly             - Issue this trigger once every Sunday.
daily              - Issue this trigger early every morning.
hour or hour range - Hours during which to run the trigger every day
                     (for example, 6,12-14 would invoke the trigger
                      every day at 6 am, noon, and 2 pm.)
day of the week    - The English name of the weekday, or a number 
                     by the letter "w", optionally followed
                     by hours or hour ranges within parentheses.
day of the month   - The English abbreviation of the day of the month,
                     or a number followed by the letter "m", 
                     optionally followed by hours or hour ranges within
                     parentheses (for example, 2nd,10th,18th,26th
                     would invoke the trigger every hour during the second,
                     tenth, eighteenth, and twenty-fourth day of every month.)

Note that each of the five individual triggers will be run by
the "daily" trigger, regardless of the values of this setting.
