 __ 
This message is being sent to you from
  $SITE
because your address
  $VICTIM
has been bouncing (failing to deliver) messages from the mailing list
  $LIST

SessionID:
  $SESSIONID


The purpose of this message is to do one final test; were this message to
bounce, you would be removed from the list.  Since you are reading this,
either the message did not bounce or there is some odd condition that
results in bounces being received by the list processor while the mail
still goes through to your mailbox.  If you are concerned, some possible
explanations for the problem are included below.  For your convenience, a
copy of the bounce message is attached to this message.

You should review any forwarding arrangements that may in place and make
sure that they are operating properly.  You may also want to check with
your Internet provider to make sure that everything is OK on their end,
and check with with the list server at
  $MAJORDOMO
or with the person(s) running the list at
  $OWNER
to make sure that you are still signed up.

To reiterate, if this message bounces then you will automatically be
removed from the list.  You should make sure that this did not happen, and
that you are still on the list.  You should also try to figure out why the
list processor may have seen bounces.

Some possible explanations for this problem:

There may have been some problem, like a full mailbox, that was causing
bounces but which is now cleared.  In that case, everything should be OK.

There may be some forwarding arrangement in place between the list server
and your mailbox which is both bouncing and delivering messages.  This is
possible but uncommon.  It generally happens when someone improperly sets
up a local list expander without properly dealing with bounces locally,
signs that addres up to a list, and lets a bad address stay on that local
expander.  If this is the case, it should be immediately obvious from the
address above (since it will most likely be the address of the list
expander and not your address).

Your Internet probider may be having some troubles.  Check with them to
make sure that everything is in working order.

Someone may be faking up bounces and sending them to the list server in
order to force your removal.  Since they can't fake a bounce of this
message, which contains a unique code, you are OK.  The attached bounce
should contain enough evidence to help track down the forger.

