                       Guide for new list owners

The $LIST mailing list has been created at
   $SITE
and you ($USER) have been named the list owner.

The master password for the $LIST list is $PASSWORD.

This guide explains how to configure a new Majordomo 2 mailing list.
Please read it carefully, and save it for future reference.


                               Addresses

These are several e-mail addresses connected with your mailing list.

  $WHOAMI
The list address.  Messages sent to this address will be distributed
to all of the subscribers.

  $MJ
The server address.  Send all administrative commands to this address.
Always put commands in the body of the message, not in the subject header.

  $OWNER
The list owners' address.  The subscribers can contact you by sending
mail to this address.

  $MJOWNER
The domain owners' address.  Send mail to this address if you
have questions about your mailing list.


                            The help system

A wealth of information about Majordomo 2 is available through the
help pages.  To learn more, write to $MJ, 
and in the body of the message put these commands:

  help admin
  help overview
  help topics


                               Passwords

Majordomo supports two kinds of password:  administrative passwords
and personal passwords.  Your administrative password is necessary
to change the configuration of your list or to perform other maintenance
tasks.  Personal passwords are used by subscribers to change their
personal settings.

There are two ways to use a password.  The first is to use the default
command to tell Majordomo to apply the password to each succeeding
command.  In the following commands:

  default password $PASSWORD
  subscribe $LIST someone@example.com

Majordomo will apply the password in the first command to the second
command.

The second way is to preface each command with the approve command
For example,

  approve $PASSWORD subscribe $LIST someone@example.com

would have the same effect as the two commands in the previous paragraph.


                             Documentation

New mailing lists usually require some changes to their documentation.

We recommend that you use the newinfo command to customize the welcome
message.  This "info" document is sent to new subscribers when they join
your mailing list.

First, view the existing "info" document with the following command:

  info-edit $LIST

Majordomo will send a copy of the document wrapped in a "newinfo"
command.  To change the document, edit its contents and send the newinfo
command back to $MJ.


                           Configuration settings 

Majordomo has many configuration settings which control the behavior of
your mailing list.  These settings can be seen using the configshow
command, and changed using the configset command.

To see the basic configuration settings for your mailing list, use the
following command:

  configshow-noforce $LIST 1

To change the settings, edit the results of this command, then send the
"configset" commands back to $MJ.


                           WWW administration

Majordomo has worldwide web support for list administrators and
subscribers.  To administer your list, visit the following location:

  $WWWADM_URL

To see the WWW service for subscribers, visit the following location:

  $WWWUSR_URL


If you need help administering your list, write to the domain
administrators at $MJOWNER.

